وَأَقُولُوا فِي الْقُرْآنِ مَا جَاءَتْ بِهِ آيَاتُهُ فَهُوَ الْكَرِيمُ الْمُنْزَالُ
وَأَقُولُوا قَالَ اللَّهُ جَلَّ جَلَالُهُ وَالْمُصْطَى فَالْهَادِي وَلَا أَتَأَوَّالُ
الحمد لله رب العالمين
له الحمد الحسن والثناء الجميل
واشدوا لا إله إلا الله وحده لا شريك له
يقول الحق وهو إهدي السبيل
وَاشَدُوا أَنَّ مُحَمَّدًا عَبْدُهُ وَرَسُولُهُ
صلَّى اللَّهُ وَعَلِيهِ وَعَلَى آلِهِ وَأَصْحَابِهِ وَالتَّابِعِينَ لَهُمْ بِإِحْسَانٍ إِلَى يَوْمِ الدِّينَ أَمَّا بَعْدٍ
In our last episode we spoke about the Seerah of Abu Bakr رضي الله تعالى عنه
And today we're going to speak about the second figure from the 10 that were promised Jannah
And that is none other than Umar ibn Al-Khattab رضي الله تعالى عنه
Umar's name is Umar ibn Al-Khattab ibn Nufayl
His name is Umar ibn Al-Khattab ibn Nufayl
ibn Adi ibn Abdul Uzz ibn Riyah ibn Qurt ibn Razah
ibn Adi ibn Ka'bi ibn Lu'ay
So he comes to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam from Adi
So he's from Adi
ibn Ka'bi ibn Lu'ay
This is where he comes
He's Ameer al-Mu'mineen and his kunya is Abu Hafs
That's al-Adawi comes from Adi ibn Ka'bi ibn Lu'ay
This is where him and the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam meet
Al-Faruqa
That's his nickname
He died a year when it was 23 Hijriya
رضي الله تعالى عنه
His mother's name is Hantama
Bintu Hisham al-Makhzoumiya
So automatically a lot of you guys already know
Who is the son of Hisham al-Makhzoumiya?
Hisham al-Makhzoumiya
Who is his son?
It's Abu Jahl
So that would mean that Umar r.a.t's mother and Abu Jahl
Are brothers and sisters
Hantamatu
Bintu Hisham al-Makhzoumiya
Is the sister of Abu Jahl
And Abu Jahl is the maternal uncle of Umar r.a.t
That's something a lot of you guys can benefit and take
Umar r.a.t
He accepted Islam and he embraced Islam
في السنة السادسة من النموة
He took it the 6th year of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
After the Prophet Muhammad became a prophet
6 years after he accepted Islam
And his age was
He was 24 years of age
When he accepted and he embraced Islam
Umar r.a.t
He was 24 years of age
And Nabilah Muhammad had come out as a prophet 6 years now
Abdullah ibn Umar who is the son of Umar ibn al-Khattab
He said
He said my father was white
There was a lot of redness in his face
He said
Umar was very tall
And he was also not skinny
He had weight
He said he was excessively red
And he had hair on his two sides
Umar r.a.t
Abdullah ibn Umar even mentioned
He said my father was white
And he said my father was tall as well
Umar was a very tall person
r.a.t
Also
Abdullah ibn Umar
He narrated and he mentioned
Many different ways
All of which are authentic
Also
Aisha mentioned the same
Abdullah ibn Mas'ud mentioned the same
And all of them you can find it
In the mustadrak of al-ha'ab
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam said
And all of these sahabahs
Aisha, Abdullah ibn Umar, Abdullah ibn Mas'ud
All of them narrated it from the Prophet
And it's all authentic alhamdulillah
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said Allahumma
The Prophet made his dua
Aizzal Islama bi Umar ibn Al-Khattab
Oh Allah
Bring honor to Islam
Through Umar ibn Al-Khattab
And Abdullah ibn Mas'ud r.a.t
He mentioned
He said mazilna
We were consistent
We were always
The day that Umar embraced Islam
Honor is what came to us
Before Umar came
They were hiding Islam
They weren't coming out
They were not coming out
They were hiding
The day Umar accepted Islam
Everyone was coming out
No one was scared anymore
Abdullah ibn Abbas r.a.t
May Allah be pleased with him and his father
He said
The Prophet said
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
I have two wazirs
From the sky
And two wazir
Ministers
Ambassadors
From the two in the sky
And two on the earth
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
It's Jibreel and Mikael
From the sky
And as for the earth
It's Abu Bakr and Umar
We also took previously
When we were speaking about
Abu Bakr r.a.t
That the messenger sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
One day he saw Abu Bakr and Umar walking
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
That these two
Are the kuhul ahlul jannah
What does that mean?
It means that they are the masters
Of the youths of jannah
Hudayfah r.a.t
From whom he mentioned
Imam al-Tirmidhi narrated it
In his jami'
And he graded it to be hasan
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
He instructed the sahabahs
And he told them
To hold onto
Abu Bakr and Umar
Hold onto their path
And their way
r.a.t
Abdul Aziz ibn al-Muttalib
Ibn al-Hantabin
Narrated from his father
Al-Muttalib
Who narrated from his father
Ibn al-Hantabin
That the
Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Was sitting one day
Ibn al-Hantabin is saying
I was sitting next to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
One day
Abu Bakr and Umar came
Out onto the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And the Prophet looked at both of them
And he said
These two individuals
Abu Bakr and Umar are like my ears and eyes
The role that my eyes and ears play
Abu Bakr and Umar play
Play those two roles
It was also narrated from
Sa'ad and Abu Waqar
It was also narrated from Sa'ad and Abu Waqar
And he said
That the Prophet said
The Prophet said
The Prophet said sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He swore by Allah
And we will believe the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Without the Prophet swearing by Allah
The Prophet swore by Allah
He said
I swear by the Lord
In which my soul is in His hand
Umar, there is no
Shaitan that meets you
On a path, except that he will
Avoid that path, whenever he sees you on that path
He will walk away from that path
He will avoid that path and he will take another path
He will take a what?
As soon as he sees that you are on that path
Shaitan will try to go on another path
He will avoid you
The Prophet said that sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
May Allah be pleased with Aisha and her
Father Abu Bakr
She mentioned
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
When Umar came to the
Wedding
And the women they ran away
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said to Umar
I can see that the
Shaitan of the jinn and the
Inns, all of them they ran away
When Umar came
Imam al-Tirmidhi authenticated this
And he graded it to be sahih
The people
Who were dancing
The Abyssinians who were dancing
The word zafn is al-raqs
Those who were dancing and partying
When Umar entered
As soon as they saw Umar enter
They all ran away
Everyone ran away
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He smiled and he laughed and he said
I can see the Shaitan and the Inns
All of them running away
When Umar entered
The Prophet came back from an expedition
A battle
And a black woman
Came to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And she said
I made another
An oath with Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
I had made
A
Oath with Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
That if Allah brings you back safe and sound
And
That I made an oath
With Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
That I am going to hit the doof
In your presence
O messenger of Allah
I am going to hit the doof
The Prophet then said to her
If this is a nather
That you made then do it
She started to do the doof
Abu Bakr entered
While she was
Doing the doof
Then Umar entered
Umar entered
As soon as she saw Umar come
She took the doof that she was hitting
And she placed it behind her back
And the woman was covering herself
And hiding
The messenger said
The Prophet said
To
Umar
Means
Shaitan is scared of you Umar
Umar
Iblis, shaitan is scared of you
That's the type of person
Umar was
Aisha she mentioned
She said that the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Said
In the umam
The nations
They were
People that when they spoke
They got it right
And the things happened to be in line
With their words
The Prophet said
And if there is someone like this
In this umma
Then it is Umar Ibn al-Khattab
And Imam Muslim narrated that
Also Abdullah Ibn al-Umar
He mentions that the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Said
Allah placed
The truth
On the tongue of who
On the tongue of Umar radiallahu ta'ala
So the Prophet
Referred to him as a muhadath
The muhadath I already mentioned is
Al mulhamoon
The ones when they speak
Things go in line with them
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Also said that Allah placed
The truth on the tongue of Umar
And his heart
And the sahabas recognized that
Including Ali ibn Abi Talib
Ali radiallahu ta'ala
He used to say
That we never found it to be far
That tranquility would be coming
From the mouth of Umar radiallahu ta'ala
And even he himself
Umar mentioned three times that
He said things which the Quran
Came in support of him
Umar radiallahu alayhi wa sallam
I went in line with my Lord in three things
Umar said it and then the Quran
Came to support him
The issue related to
Maqami Ibrahim
And the issue of the hijab
When he came to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
The hijab
And then the ayah came down
And also the ayah
Those three verses they came in support
With Umar radiallahu ta'ala
Rather the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Had a dream regarding
Umar ibn Umar and he said
I heard the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam say
I was sleeping
A cup of milk was brought to me
And I drank from the cup
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
The Prophet said I had a dream
And in this dream
A cup of milk was brought to me
And I drank
I drank from it
And I saw that the
The quench
Of the milk
The Prophet said he drank it
He drank so much that the milk
Was coming out of his nails
Then I gave
Whatever was left over
From my milk
The Prophet said I got
Then I gave it to Umar
I said Umar finish it off I can't
And then Umar started to drink it
The people they said
What's your interpretation of that dream
What does that mean that you drank the milk and gave it to Umar
What does that mean
The Prophet said knowledge
Umar is going to take knowledge like that
Allahu Akbar
The vastness of
The knowledge of Umar
Abu Saeed also mentioned that
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam said
The Prophet had another dream
I was sleeping the Prophet said
The Prophet said I had a dream
The people were
Being brought to me and they were wearing
A garment
People's garments were
The length of the garment were different
Some people were reaching their shin
Some people were reaching this some were reaching that
Different places of their bodies
Umar came by me
Umar was wearing a kameesh
His kameesh was dragging on the ground
It was very long
What's your interpretation
Of the dream or message of Allah
The Prophet said
This shows
The vastness of Umar's religion
How vast it is
My brothers and sisters inside benefit
He speaks about it in great details
He does touch on it
In his kitab
He also speaks about it in his kitab
And in other places of his works
Ibn Taymiyya has already previously spoken about it
Other great scholars have touched on this
And that is this issue of a dream
Doesn't necessarily mean
That it's a shara'a ruling
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam here mentioned
Umar's garment would be dragging on the ground
That doesn't mean
That it's permissible for a man's garment to drag
As we know
The man's garment is not allowed to be
Below his ankles
So what you see in your dream
Doesn't necessarily mean it's a reality
What do I mean by that brothers and sisters
Someone might see
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam in their dream
As they think they have
They assume they saw the Prophet in their dream
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And what they see in their dream says to them
You don't need to pray dhur or asr
Or maghrib or isha or fajr
And the person wakes up
Wakes up and said
I saw the Prophet in my dream
And since I saw the Prophet in my dream
And he told me I don't need to pray
I no longer have to pray
We'll say to that person number one
That's not the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam in which you saw
And that is definitely
Not a ruling that you should take on board
What you do is what you follow
Is what is in the Quran and the sunnah
And this is my sallallahu alayhi wa sallam regarding dreams
And it's reality inshallah
I will speak about it somewhere else
In the name of Allah the most gracious
So sometimes the dreams can be
Things that are opposite
To the shara'i
Ruling but they have
Another interpretation
So the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam here is explaining
That the dragging of the garment
Of Umar radiallahu ta'ala
Is what
Is the vastness of Umar's religion
And how strong his deen is
It has nothing to do with the permissibility
Of what
Of a person's garment
A male's garment can it pull
On the ground, it can it be below the ankles
He's not talking about that
So I hope you will have taken that one board
And understood that
Anas radiallahu ta'ala anhu he said
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam he said
Arham ummati abu bakar
The most merciful person in my ummah is abu bakar
Wa ashadduha fideelillahi umar
And the one that's the strongest
And toughest on the religion is Umar
Radiallahu ta'ala anhu
Also the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Mentioned another dream he had
Abu hurayr narrated this and he said that the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
The Prophet said I was sleeping
Ra'aytuni fil jannati
Fidh amra'atan
Tatawadda ila jani bi qasrin
I saw a woman
So the Prophet said I was sleeping
And the Prophet was in jannah
And he saw
A woman doing wudu
And she was doing wudu
Ila jani bi qasrin
The woman was doing wudu
On the side of a beautiful palace
Fa qultu
I said liman hadha al qasru
Who is that
Ya'ni palaces
Who owns this palace
Qalu they said
To me the Prophet said li umara
That's Umar's palace
Fa dhkartu ghirata umar
The Prophet then said I remembered the protective
Jealousy of Umar
Fa wallaytu mudibirana
I looked at the woman I turned my back
Fa baka umar
Umar cried and he said
Bi abi anta ya rasoola Allahi
A'laika agharu
Umar cried and he said ya rasoola Allahi
Am I going to be jealous of you
Protective jealous of you
I trust you
The Prophet of Allah
Bukhari and Muslim both
Narrated that
A'limna bi taribin
One day he stood on the pulpit of Kufa
And he did this
He did this in the presence of many people
This was Ayyama Khilafati
The days of his khilafa
A'limna bi taribin
He said
The best man
After Nabi Allahi Muhammad
Is Abu Bakr
And after Abu Bakr
The best person is Umar
If you want me to tell you
The third person
I can tell you who it is
This brothers and sisters
Imam al-Dhahabi
He said
This is
This is multitude
Mass transmission
Of A'limna bi taribin
Saying this about Abu Bakr and Umar
And look what he said after that
Imam al-Dhahabi
He said
May Allah Ta'ala destroy the Rafid
Who say otherwise
Aisha she said
Abu Bakr said
Aisha head is from her father Abu Bakr
Abu Bakr one day he said
Ma ala dhaher al ardi
Rajulun ahab
Ilayya min umara
Aisha radiya Allah wa ta'ala
She heard her father
Abu Bakr saying
Nobody on the face of this earth today
More beloved to me than Umar
Abu Bakr said that
Aisha also mentioned
Dakhala naasun ala abi Bakrin
A group of people they entered onto
Abi Bakr
When he was on his death bed
And they said to him
Do you think
It's fit
That you place
Over us Umar
You appoint Umar as the next
Your next
Kin in power
Your next in power
You place Umar as your successor
Do you think that's something fit
That you should do
Do you think it's a wise decision
They said that to Abu Bakr
To place Umar over us
And to make him the next leader
After you go
To make him your successor
Do you think it's a wise decision
And they look what he said
Abi Bakr
They said to him
When you meet Allah what are you going to say
What's your response
When Allah asks you why did you place Umar over these people
What are you going to say
I will say to
Allah that I appointed
The best person I knew for them
Because Umar
The reason why they were concerned
Was because he was strong
And they were used to
Umar was soft
Umar was strong as we mentioned before
The statement of the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam when he said
The most merciful person of my Ummah
Is
Abi Bakr
The one who is the strongest
Upon the religion
And he's like that is Umar
And that's why Abd al-Abin al-Saudin
Mentioned
If the righteous people are
Umar is mentioned there
He said
That
Umar had more
Knowledgeable in the book of Allah than all of us
And he had more fiqh in the deen of Allah
Abd al-Abin al-Saudin saying this by the way right
Abd al-Abin al-Saud was a alim
Of the Quran
Also Abd al-Abin al-Saudin he said
Arabic
If the knowledge of Umar was placed
On one side of the scale
Arabic
And if all the other remaining people
On this earth their knowledge
Was being placed on the other side
Arabic
Umar's knowledge will be greater and higher
Than their knowledge
That's the type of knowledge he had
Abd al-Abin al-Saudin also said
Arabic
Abd al-Abin al-Saudin he said
I haven't seen anyone
Arabic
Most serious
Authentic, most serious, most touch
Arabic
That's the type of
That's the type of person he was
One day his two
Children came to him one day
Arabic
And other than him mentioned
That Hafsa and Abdullah ibn Umar
Both of them Hafsa is the daughter
Of Umar
And Abdullah is also
The son of Umar
So they both came to their father
And other than them two they came to their father
And they spoke to him
Arabic
Umar why don't you eat good food
It will help you in the truth and in the hard work that you're doing
It will help you if you eat good food
And then he said to them
Arabic
All of you all of that
Opinion
Hafsa do you believe that as well she said yes
Abdullah do you believe that as well he said yes
He asked the other people there
Do you all believe that they said yes
Arabic
Then he said to them
I've come
To know your sincere advice for me
I know you're all concerned for me
I know you all mean good for me
Arabic
But I have left my two friends
And who is he referring to here
The Prophet
And also
Arabic
I've known them to be upon a path
This path I'm on is the path they were upon
Arabic
And if I leave their path
I won't reach the house the goal
That they reached I won't be able to
So I can't get off that path
But I can see that you guys are trying
To be sincere in your advice to me
Arabic
A year
From within the time of Umar
A year happened
Arabic
And it was mentioned that he
Never ate yogurt and anything
Like that he was eating very basic
To the extent that his stomach
Bloated
Because of
What type of food that he was
Eating
Arabic
And by he was stitched by the way
And he was all stitched together
Arabic
Where he would discipline the people
You don't do this
Arabic
And whenever he would find
People dropping dates
He would pick them up
Arabic
And he would throw it at people's houses
So they could benefit and eat it
And if he saw
That dates were dropped from people's
Belongings and things like that
And he would throw it at people's houses
So they could benefit from it
And eat it and utilize it
Arabic
He never made any tent for himself
He just took a cloth
And he placed it on top of a tree
And he stayed under that
Arabic
tents. Allah Akbar. Wallahi, you will know the importance of tents. Nowadays, the tents
have air conditioner. Ya'ani, so much things. Water supply, this and that. This is Ameer
al-Mu'mineen. Umar ibn al-Khattab, no tent. Al-Mutallib ibn al-Ziyadin, he's mentioned
from Abdullah ibn al-Isa, kana fi wajhi umar ibn al-Khattabi khattani aswada'ni
Umar's face, there was a black line that ran on his cheek. And they said that this was
because of his excessive crying. The crying that he used to cry a lot. Hudaifat ibn al-Yamani,
he said, Wallahi ma'a'rifu rajulan. He said, I don't know any man. Ya'ani, Wallahi ma'a'rifu
rajulan. I don't know any man. La taqhudhu fi Allahi laumata la'iman illa Umar. I
don't know any individual that the blame of the blameer does not worry him or concern
him except Umar. Umar radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu, the blame of the blameer cannot influence
him. He was a person qawwalin bil haqqi. The truth will be uttered. The haqq will
be done. RadiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu. He didn't fear what someone might say. If it's the
truth, if it's the haqq, Umar radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu wasn't scared. RadiyaAllahu
ta'ala anhu. Ibrahim ibn Abd al-Rahmani ibn al-A'uf, the son of Abd al-A'uf,
he said. The leader Qisra, his treasures were brought to Umar after the Muslims conquered
it. And Abdullah ibn al-Arqam, he said to Umar, he was placed in front of Umar, and
Abdullah ibn al-Arqams came to Umar and he said to him, are you going to place this
wealth and all of this in the bayt al-mal, so you can then divide it and give it to the
rightful people? By Allah I swear, I'm not going to place this in the same roof as
my house. Get it outside and please place it somewhere else. They took it to the
masjid and they placed it in the middle of the masjid. And there were security guards
that were protecting it. Umar stood over it, radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu, and he looked
at it and he saw the gold, pearls, diamonds, the things that were there, millions that
were there. Umar cried. They said to him, why are you crying the leader of the believers?
And then he said, sorry, they said to him, why are you crying? Today is not a day to
cry, it's a day of gratitude. It's a day of happiness. You shouldn't be crying,
you should be happy that we've conquered that land and its gold and its wealth.
And then he said, wa yahaq, destruction, inna hadha lam yu'taha fa inna hadha lam
yu'taha qawmun illa ulqiyat baynahum al-adawatul maghda. That this is never ever placed
amongst a people except that it brings amongst them hate and animosity. When this comes,
people start to have hate and animosity. Allahu Akbar.
In Surfiyan al-Thawriyu, he mentioned, man za'ama anna ariyan kana ahuq bil wilayati
min abi bakr wa umara faqad khatta aba bakr wa umara wal muhajideena wal ansa. Anybody
who claims that Ali was more fitter for leadership than abi bakr and umara, faqad
khatta aba bakr, that person has said abu bakr is wrong, wa umara, and he's
also saying umara is wrong. wal muhajideena wal ansa, and he's also saying the muhajideena
and the ansaar were all wrong when they appointed abi bakr and umara. All of them are wrong.
Sharikin, he mentions, laisa yuqaddamu aliyan ala abi bakr wa umara ahadun fihi khayrun.
There's no one who has any good in himself that would put Ali before abi bakr and umara.
Al-Hassan ibn Salih ibn Hayyin, he said, sami'atu ja'far ibn Muhammad ibn al-Sadiq
yaqoolu anabari'un mimman dhakara aba bakr wa umara illa bi khayrun. The Ja'far
ibn Muhammad ibn al-Sadiq said, I am free. Anabari'un, I am free. From who?
Mimman dhakara, anyone who mentions abu bakr and umara in that which is bad.
I am free from them. If he mentions them in good, alhamdulillah. But if he mentions those two,
I am free from them. I have nothing to do with them. How did Umar radiya'Allah anhu pass away and die?
Umar radiya'Allah ta'ala anhu, in the city of Medina, when he did his hajj,
first of all, he left Mina. Umar radiya'Allah ta'ala anhu, Saeed ibn Musayyib in mentions,
he said when Umar radiya'Allah anhu did his sermon, his reminder in Mina,
he gave the people the reminder. Umar radiya'Allah anhu raised his hands to the sky
and he begged Allah ta'ala and he said, Allahumma kabbarat sinni, my age has now become,
I am old now, wa da'ufat quwati, and my strength has now become low,
I am not as strong as I used to be, and I am not as young and as enthusiastic as I used to be,
I am old now, I have aged, wa ntasharat ra'iyati, and my Islamic empire has grown and spread,
and it is more people now that I have to govern over, faqbidhni ilayka,
ghayra muday'in wala mufarridh, oh Allah, take my life without forsaking me,
oh Allah, and allow me not to go extreme,
Saeed ibn Musayyib mentions, fa man salakha dhul hijjah hatta tu'una famat,
dhul hijjah did not finish, except that Umar radiya'Allah anhu was killed,
also Aslam mentioned that Umar radiya'Allah anhu did the dua,
he specifically made, also Bukhari narrated it was,
Allahumma rzuqni shahadatan fee sabiyilik,
this was another dua he made, he said, oh Allah, give me martyrdom,
shahada in your path, waj'al mawti fee baladi ya rasulik,
and make my death in the land of your messenger, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
the way he died, Umar radiya'Allah anhu,
and he was taken was, al-zuhri, Muhammad ibn al-shihab al-zuhri mentions,
he said that Umar had a way that he would not let any of the non-Muslim slaves
who reached age of puberty to enter Medina, he would never let them,
until one day al-Mughirat ibn al-shu'bah,
he came to Umar radiya'Allah anhu,
and he said, Mughira was in Kufa, Mughira wrote a letter to Umar radiya'Allah anhu,
mentioning to him that there was a young boy who wants to enter Medina,
and he has something to offer, he'll be beneficial for the people,
he's a haddad, he's a carpenter, he's a blacksmith as well,
he's got a lot of things under his belt, okay,
he's a najjar, haddad, naqash, he's got a lot of things he can do,
so he said please let him into Medina, don't stop him from entering Medina,
fa adhina lahu ayyur sila bihi, Umar radiya'Allah anhu allowed him to be entered,
he said he'll be coming,
Mughira, the money that he wrote for this young boy because he was his slave,
he used to give him a hundred dirhams the whole month, okay,
so this young boy came to Umar radiya'Allah anhu complaining,
and he said that the money that Mughira has given me is so little,
and the work is too much, okay,
so Umar radiya'Allah anhu assessed the situation and looked into it,
and he said to him what Mughira is doing to you is not wrong,
it's fair, it's fair, no problem, carry on working,
so this young boy he left,
he was upset and angry and frustrated,
but what he did was he made a plan to take the life of Umar,
he took a sharp blade,
he hid it inside the masjid that he was working on for an entire month,
this blade he was placing in the fire,
he was putting poison on it,
he kept putting it in the fire poisoning it,
and then finally he put it inside the masjid, corner of the masjid,
and he entered the masjid,
when he entered the masjid Umar radiya'Allah anhu looked behind at the people,
and he said to them straighten the lines,
straighten the lines everyone,
he said straighten your lines,
and Umar radiya'Allah anhu he started the prayer,
this the Salah started,
Umar radiya'Allah anhu started to lead the prayer,
and what he did was he placed the dagger that he made,
and he put it in the shoulder of Umar radiya'Allah anhu,
Umar fell on the ground,
and when he tried to come out after he daggered Umar,
he wanted to go through the lines,
what happened was,
because the sahabas were very close to each other in the Salah,
which is the way it should be,
they were so close,
ka'annum bunyanum marshus,
it was like cemented bricks onto one another,
the sahabas were very tight,
in order to get out,
he couldn't get out,
there was no place for him to come out,
so what he did was he pierced 13 men there,
6 of which died,
and Umar was taken to his family,
the son was about to set,
sorry the son was about to come out,
because it was Fajr that he was leading,
the son was about to come out,
so as soon as Umar dropped,
Abdul Rahmani bin Awfin came forward,
he led the people with two swords,
then the people started to enter onto Umar radiya'Allah anhu,
as soon as the Salah finished,
everyone went to Umar's house,
wanting to know what it was,
and they kept praising Umar radiya'Allah anhu,
you are this and that,
Umar radiya'Allah anhu,
he requested for his son
to make him a small little pillow from the earth,
so Abdul Rahmani bin Awfin brought the son together,
and Umar put his head there,
people were praising him,
speaking highly of him,
and he kept saying to them,
Wallahi ma wadittu anni kharajtu minha kafafan,
la'aliyya wa la liya,
I wish I could leave this world,
nothing for me, nothing against me,
wa anna sohbata rasulillahi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam at li,
and the only thing I can have with me,
is the companionship of Nabilahi Muhammad,
the only thing,
Abdullah bin Abbas entered onto him,
and he praised him,
fa qala he said to him as well,
lawanna li tila'al ardi dahaman,
if I had this earth full of gold,
left today to be in holy matla,
I would pay all of that,
just to go through the distress,
of the day of judgment,
then he said,
I have made a shura,
a committee of people,
these people are Uthman,
and Ali,
and Talhat,
and Zubayri bin Awam,
and Abdul Rahmani bin Awfin,
and Sa'ad,
okay,
and he said to,
the Salah should be led by Suhaib,
let Suhaib lead the people the Salah,
and he said,
my son,
Abdul Rahman,
Abdullah,
my son Abdullah,
he is with you guys,
but you can't choose him,
don't point my son,
my son be with you,
stay with you guys,
but you can't choose him,
then he said,
who is the man who did this to me,
who pierced a blade in me,
was he a Muslim?
and they said,
he was a young boy,
Mughira said to you,
his name is,
Abu Lula,
Al-Majrusiyah,
he was a Majrusiyah,
a fire worshiper,
a Zoroastrian,
his name was called,
Abu Lula,
he was the one who did this to you,
and then Umar said,
Alhamdulillah,
levi lam yaj'al maniyati bi yajulin yada'il Islam,
praises to Allah,
that my death is not on the hands of a believer,
look how he was worried,
that he might be a believer,
then he said to his son,
Abdullah,
come here,
he said,
go to Aisha,
ask her,
say to her,
yasta'dhiru umaru ayyudfana ma'a sahibayhi,
Umar is requesting,
that he get buried next to his two friends,
Ya Rasulullah,
and Abu Bakr,
he went to her,
Abdullah ibn Umar,
he said to her,
that my father is requesting,
if he can be buried,
next to his two friends,
Aisha,
she said,
I wanted it for myself,
that place,
I wanted it for what?
I wanted it for myself,
but she said,
I will choose Umar over myself,
I'll give it to him,
she said,
I'll let him take it,
so,
Abdullah ibn Umar came back to his father,
and he said to his father,
he said,
she has given you permission,
she said,
no problem,
and Umar radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu,
he said,
Alhamdulillah,
praises to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
it was mentioned,
Aisha,
from the day that Umar was buried in that room,
she used to wear hijab in the house,
she would cover herself,
radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu,
may Allah be pleased with her mother,
Aisha,
Umar is dead,
he's not alive,
ma'a dhalika shaynus,
what about my beloved brothers and sisters,
what about my sisters,
sorry,
who are out there,
who are taking off their hijab,
who are not covering themselves,
and there are men looking at them,
placing it on social media,
then our mother,
Hafsa,
radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu,
the wife of the Prophet,
salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
Umm al-Mu'minina Hafsa,
she entered to her father,
she spoke to her father,
and she talked to him about everything
that she wanted to talk to him about,
and Umar radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu,
he spoke to his daughter,
and he spoke to the people around him,
and after that he passed away,
Jareel ibn Abdullah,
he said,
it was heard that Mu'awiyah was doing
a khutba in Sham,
and he was saying,
the Prophet,
salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
he died when he was 63,
and Abu Bakr and Umar
also died when they were 63,
I'm going to conclude there,
inshaAllahu ta'ala,
anything which I have said
that was wrong or incorrect
is from me and shaytan,
and Allah, his messenger,
are both free from it,
subhanakaAllahu wabih,
alhamdulillah,
inshaAllahu alayhi wa sallam,
astaghfirullah,
That's an easy two second action that you definitely don't want to miss out on.
Do it now, click like and subscribe and don't forget to make that intention.